---
layout: post
title: A Day at the Zoo
author: Sumeet Kumar
---

It was a Sunday. The weather was perfect.25 degrees. Clear skies. No sign of rain. Nice breeze. Open top Porsche with  three digits on the odometer. A tank full of gas. Sunglasses. Beer in the boot. An awesome soundtrack. Highway through the desert. Not a soul for miles. It was perfect.

Except the car won't start.

The engine noise was simply intoxicating. Drunk on power and some beer they had driven themselves very far from civilization. Now all that surrounded them was the Mojave desert. 
Sand and calm and nothingness and bliss. 

Then, John, driving at that time saw something on the road.
 
It was a lizard that had discovered that the best time for crossing the road when a 150 mile an hour car was hurtling towards it with enough force to pulverize it. 

John pretty much stood on the brake. The car skidded on the road screaming for traction. So much for traction control. 

It skidded off the road throwing a huge rooster of sand and dirt behind it. The lizard apparently escaped without so much as a scratch. The car had come to a halt. And that was the end. It won't start. There wasn't as much as a squeak from the ignition. They let out a huge sigh. Ed took out his cell phone. You see, neither John nor Ed had the slightest clue about what went on inside the engine. 

They did know that the Porsche had it in the back. He dialed AAA and put it on his ears. A very familiar female voice told him that they were out of service area. Apparently none of their phones were finding any connections. John's was almost out of juice too. The only option left was to stay at the spot and wait for some oncoming car to get help. John took out two beers and gave one to Ed.

 Apparently on the odd chance that you are not cruising through it at high speed the desert is actually pretty boring. Ed sat back in the car and stuffed his ears with earphones. See, Ed was a city mouse born and raised. There was only so much sensory deprivation he could take.

 John took to walking along the road. He had picked up a stick and was stroking the grass as he walked along. He thought he could get better reception if tried from a higher ground. He also wanted a better look at the desert. He had walked only a few feet away from the car when he heard something.
Clip-clop-clip-clop.
It was the unmistakable sound of horse hooves. He turned around to find a long horse drawn carriage. 
John had always wanted to as a kid to ride a horse cart when he lived in New York. But his mother never allowed him.

Now he had grown up such silly ambitions. John waved his arms over his head to get it to stop. It worked. He ran to the guy holding the reins. He had to raise his head to look over the gigantic horses. The sun was getting in his eyes. He shaded himself with his arm.

"Hey can you help us? Our car won't start."

No answer. Then a small turbaned head appeared out of the curtain from the carriage.

"Ah he doesn't speak that much. I'll come out the back."

John ran to the back of the carriage. By this time even Ed had noticed the carriage and was stepping out of the car as he unplugged his ears.

 The turbaned head appeared out the back. Now that he was in the shade of the carriage he could have a better look at the owner of the turbaned head. He was incredibly old. He had the most weathered skin they had ever seen. It was heavy with wrinkles. There was a generous sprinkling of liver spots. But his eyes shone bright and were as curious as a three year old. He also had a long shiny beard that seemed to sparkle in the sunlight. His face was awash with radiance. He seemed very harmless almost familiar. He also seemed to be genuinely delighted to have found them in the middle of nowhere.

"Eh what's the matter?"
"Our car broke down and we can't get any signal on our phones. You think you guys can help us out?"
"That would be tough. See we don't have any phones with us. We tend to find them….cumbersome. And we don't really deal in cars. Our business is of different nature."

John knew it was a long shot. But he was also bored. He took his cue.

"Well what is it? What possible business could you have in the middle of this godforsaken place?"
"Why entertainment of course. Feeding your curiosities. Didn't you read the sign?"

Both John and Ed stepped a few steps back. The sign was on the top of the door. It was written in an archaic yet beautiful font. It said ASTOR FAMILY TRAVELLING ZOO. Apparently it was a zoo.
The turbaned man introduced himself.

"I am Jeremiah Edmonson Frederick Astor the Third. Welcome to the Astor Family travelling Circus."

Ed whispered into my ears "We're screwed." His sarcastic streak was back.

The curtains parted sideways to reveal an entrance to the carriage. It also revealed that the turbaned head was indeed attached to a body as old as his face. He wore a brilliant blue garment that went all the way down to the floor and dragged along as he walked. He was no more than four feet tall and was stooped with age. He was using  long staff to support himself.

"Some instructions before we begin. Please don't feed anything in the circus. And please no photography. It would be most disrespectful."

We followed him to the entrance. It was a very ornate door that would not have looked out of place in some maharaja's palace. John remembered that his boss importing one from Iran for his house. As they came closer they could see the intricate carvings on the borders of the door. It had those winged midget baby like things. John remembered them from some greeting cards he had received. And also from his kids fairy tale books. They were also carrying tiny trumpets. As soon as they reached the door they started playing.

"Fucking cute," Ed snarked.

John could swear the baby things had heard it and were hurt. They stopped playing and looked dejected.
The door opened.
The interior was long gallery.There were enclosures on both sides. They didn't remember it to be so large from the outside. They followed the turbaned head to the first enclosure.
"On your right you will find the abada. A magnificent animal. We found this in Congo. Its horns can counter most poisons."

It looked like a small ass with two horns attached to its head. And that's what Ed told John. He was loud enough for the turbaned man to have heard him. He skipped a few cages and brought them to a grassy patch. It had a peg with a chain. On the other end of it was a horse with a green mane. It sat cross legged on the grass. John couldn't remember the last time he'd seen a horse sitting.

"Who'd have guessed. Another horse. Is this some sort of pony emporium? We have a Porsche. What are we gonna do with a horse?"This was Ed again. 
John thought this had pissed off the turbaned man.
He also thought he could hear the horse interject ,"Do  excuse me but..".He couldn't hear the rest of it because the turbaned man was very swiftly floating towards the next section of enclosures.     

He stopped. It was a room furnished in Japanese style. There were tatami mats on the floor and a very pale lady sat with almost long serpentine raven black hair sat on it clipping leaves from a bonsai. The turbaned man spoke to her in what sounded like perfect Japanese. A very timid smile appeared on her face. 

Then some of her hair rose up like a snake and picked up an apple and brought it to the back of her head. Then a mouth opened on her head and she started eating the apple. The turbaned man was very pleased. He made a short bow and walked away. John and Ed hastily bowed themselves and made after the turbaned man. Not that it's needed to be said but Ed didn't seem impressed.

This time they were in a huge enclosure. It had a giant glass dome on it. It was veritable rainforest in all its glory. The sunlight fell through the tree cover in big splotches and fell on the pools of water on the ground. Apparently it had been raining recently. .John could see some dark clouds in the distance too. A huge bird with lighting crackling out its majestic wings seemed to be flying I front of the storm clouds. 

Ed simply put his sunglasses back on. It was really a giant aviary. Every kind of bird that they had never seen could be found there. John found a dodo staring at them. Suddenly all those dodo references made sense. A neighboring tree seemed to be entirely black. Then John found it to be covered entirely by crows. A few eagles, bigger than any he'd ever seen were braving the storm winds. And a few ones that appeared to have come out of a Dali piece. 

It was surreal.

It was ridiculous. 

John looked to his left. The turbaned man was looking up at the sky through the glass dome. 

His face carried the smile of a person who was finally at peace. There was a smile on his face that said that he was content .It seemed to celebrate a proud and well lived life. It reminded him of old Mr. Banks, the 76 year old doorman from his apartment. Then he felt an elbow in his ribs. Ed was Pinching his nose. He lowered himself to his ear level and said, 

"And that's why smell-o- vision never got picked up." John was nonplussed. 

He had known Ed for a pretty long time. He knew that Ed found his sarcasm very funny and didn't really give a flying fuck about what others might think of him  or his remarks. But this was frankly horrible. The turbaned man was clearly very proud of his…animals. It probably took a lot of effort and time and money to keep it running.

 Okay, maybe the horses were just painted on there was a speaker hidden somewhere in that other horse's place, maybe that Japanese lady was just some clever puppetry and this bird zoo is one of those new 3D screens but still it was pretty impressive. 

What was he trying to prove by being such a dick to this really old guy? Just because his car broke down and his weekend got ruined didn't mean he got to be a dick to some random old person. He was going to speak his first words since they had entered the caravan when the turbaned man interrupted.

"I have one more thing to show you. But we must hurry. It happens only every ten thousand years and the moment is arriving fast. Please follow me."

And so they did. 
John saw something that looked like a mermaid only with sizable fangs and a terrifyingly hungry look on its face in a man sized aquarium but they couldn't stop to look at it. 

Soon they were in front of a big bird cage. Its feathers were golden, and purple, and silver. It was smaller than a turkey, larger than a rooster, and had the long legs and high head of a heron, though its head was more like the head of an eagle. It was beautiful. The bird seemed stressed. It flapped its wings nervously and seemed to show no interest in its visitors. John could feel a warm glow coming out of the bird. 
Then the glow became so bright that it began to hurt his eyes. It also got very warm. 

Beads of sweat formed on his brow. 

Then suddenly it exploded. 

There wasn't a sound. Just a flash and then some smoldering remains and ash fell on the cage floor. All this happened within the span of a few seconds. John was astonished. His mouth hung open. He felt a bit stupid. He was about to say something when there was a movement in the ash.
 A tiny purple head raised itself from the ashes. It stirred its feathers and made a high pitched chirp. It looked out the window behind it, at the sun like someone waking from a long sleep. It stretched its wings, dusting off the ashes and eventually when it was ready climbed out the cage and flew out the window.

John was overwhelmed. He kept staring out the window although the bird had long past flown away. He could still taste the sharp tangy edge of the air on his tongue. Then Ed broke the silence.

"I'll have to admit that was a pretty nice trick."

Then he showed John his phone. He had six bars.

They walked out of the caravan with the turbaned man leading them. As they walked out to their car the turbaned man said, "I hope you enjoyed the show. Maybe the next time we meet I'll have  a great white snark for you."

"Hey that was actually a good one", Ed replied.

The turbaned man turned away with a smile and disappeared inside the caravan. Ed dialed AAA while the caravan moved further up the road. The AAA would get there in another hour. Maybe they still had a few beers left. 

