---
layout: post
title: Adaptations
author: Aashish Mane
---

*Is anyone up to anything good regarding FF2?
 
I wasn't but I wanted to be. So I went for it.
 
-Just got an idea for FF2… Hope I see it through :)
 
I hadn't got an idea. I hadn't a clue, but I still wanted to write something.
 
*Looking forward to it :)
 
It's the day after now, and I hadn't written anything yet. Honestly? I'd subconsciously believed that publicly declaring that I was up to something would be incentive for me to get up to it.
I'm writing now.
 
-Me too :P
It's turning out a little weird though, so I hope this works out :D
 
I don't know why I did that. Well I do, but that's just what they say in stories. I did it because I thought it would look cool. I'm writing a dynamic story, it really does feel cool.
But I still needed a story. What was it that we were supposed to be writing about?
 
*Anyway, I'll just pitch in elements that should be present in your story/poem/limerick/whatever you want to write:
A bikini, a roll of tape, an angry boss, a bet.
 
I think I should pick one and build the rest of them around it.
A bet.
I've got a bet going at the moment. It's a sex bet. To win, I've got to be the first of the two of us to get laid. It's a cheap bet, but the spirit's in the pink.
The story's going to revolve around this sex bet. I've got to make sure it doesn't turn out distasteful though. I'm guessing that it'd be a lot less creepy if the people involved in the bet were of the opposite sex. One of the characters is going to be me, and the other a girl. My girlfriend. Not only is she very pretty and intelligent but she also dresses well and thinks a lot.
 
We were both young and would joke around all the time. There definitely existed a sexual tension and joking about it was an easy way to diffuse that tension. Of course we always thought that we were better than other couples and that our games were far more intellectual than those which the others played. One night, over the phone, (we must both have been relatively randy because) we were talking about sex. One thing leads to another and we've got ourselves a bet. 
 
I still have to work in a bikini though. Could it be my girlfriend's? No, that's too predictable and what about the role of tape?
 
Love is like a roll of tape,
It's really good for making two things one,
But just like that roll of tape,
Love sometimes breaks off before you were done.
 
We (my girlfriend and I) might have been in love. But because we both considered ourselves rational, the bet made sense. We believed that our relationship was not going to last (it was too good) and it didn't.
 
-I need help with something. I'm stuck.
=What's it about?
-The fiction fortnight. Have a look.
=Right.
-So how is it? I needed to show someone this. I need to know if it makes sense.
=It's cool, yeah. But you just added yourself to the story to make it more interesting. It's an Adaptation. rip off.
-Yeah! That's the point. I'm adapting Adaptation..
=So is what I'm saying right now going to make it to the story?
 
I've established the two main characters and our relationship and now I'm going to write them a future.

We're both (my ex-girlfriend and I) considerably older and sitting at the same table at a cafe.
+The beach is absolutely perfect this time of the year.
-Is it not always this way?
+Not always. Not when it's raining.
-You obviously spend a fair amount of your time here on the coast.
+That I do, to get away from it all. What is it that you said you do for a living?
-Nothing. I said nothing about what I do. And that is precisely what I do. Nothing. My father earns my living for me.
+Doing? Anything I might have heard of?
-Real Estate. Glen Ross is his name.
+I see.
-Did you know that men wear bikinis as well?
+Do they now?
-Male beachwear can be referred to as a bikini as well. In fact, what bodybuilders wear: the high paneled underwear; it's called a bikini. Borat of course owns his very own neon green 'Mankini'.
+Sacha Baron Cohen's simply brilliant. I loved Borat, still do actually…naat!
 
Conversation was still easy. We hadn't spoken in years and yet, talking about underwear seemed absolutely normal. This didn't surprise me though, what astonished me was that; this level of comfort had been reached with virtually no difficulty. I was expecting the re-establishment of our rapport to take a lot more time, given that I was in disguise.
 
-Would you like to go get a drink? A cocktail at the beach maybe?
+Tell me, what became of our bet?
She saw right through my disguise. She knew that it was me.
 
I had been employed to retrieve a photograph from her. It was an intimate photograph, taken at the beach. They were both in it, my employer and her. She wore a yellow bikini.
 
-Our bet? Nothing by the looks of it. It's still on I'd have to say. Is it not?
+That it is.
 
She ended our conversation with that and walked away. She'd won. My boss was going to be very angry. I'd lost, lost to THE woman.
 
-Done :)
 Hope you like it.
