---
layout: post
title: The Third Gate
author: B. Aashranth
excerpt: The scream still ricochets off the walls. Through haggard eyes I see the goblet tremble; a raging tempest within - matching the palpitations of my heart - pulse for pulse.
---

bq. Demos Oneiroi simply means "the land of dreams" taken from Greek mythology. The Oneiroi were black winged demons, their father was the god of sleep, Hypnos. Each night, the Oneiroi would fly from their home, passing through one of two gates to deliver dreams to the sleeping people. Which gate they passed through would determine how meaningful, or true, the dream they would receive was.

p>. -The Internet
 
h3. I. Gnawing doubt
 
The scream still ricochets off the walls. Through haggard eyes I see the goblet tremble; a raging tempest within - matching the palpitations of my heart - pulse for pulse. I am still in the state where infant thoughts prematurely thrust forth, surprised to find reasoning ability lag far behind. It feels like walking with your head held high, realizing only after each step that you're trying to tread water.
 The soothing moonlight and my long-suffering candle silently assure me that nobody witnessed the indignity of the past few minutes. It gladdens me; for an Emir that never needed to work, I have worked hard to create my haven of solitude and erudition.  Enough! My throat is wet again and I feel strength coursing back. The Aenid lies open at a part I found particularly interesting. I read it again; at once things start falling into perspective.

bq. Two Gates the silent House of Sleep adorn;
 Of polish'd Iv'ry this, that of transparent Horn:
 True Visions thro' transparent Horn arise;
 Thro' polish'd Iv'ry pass deluding Lies.

My lips twitch upwards in scorn at those that think of dreams as worthless trinkets of the night. Nay, Virgil and Homer knew of their true nature; through the Aenid and the Odyssey, I am gradually learning them too.

A dream may be a portent of calamity or great fortune; an unspoken prophecy and its own oracle. It can be a true vision of things yet to happen, a beacon for the man wise enough to heed it.
 Such have been my dreams of the monocle man. He waits and watches, and when I see him, he fixes me with his eye; a stare captivating and questioning. I know that my inner self stands revealed under his piercing gaze; he sees me inside out, dreams and thoughts- and he knows about me what I don't myself.
 It means that by studying one's dreams, a man can open a window into the secret turrets of his mind. With this record of my dreams, thus, I hope someday to be Sultan of my mind.

 But a dream can also be a wicked illusion; a deluding lie and a misleading thought.

It was a vision from the Ivory gate that woke me up, I tell myself; that I saw a false nightmare. Yet, I despair that it may be a true vision; that I may become my own nemesis.

For I have just looked through the eyes of a man possessed by his dreams. He - and I…I'm afraid it might be me - is borne by a peculiar bird. Golden necked and gifted with iridescent plumage, the bird is followed by two others just like it, only smaller. They carry him over glittering deserts and bustling cities, through burning plains and towering peaks, till they reach the vast green sea. 
There they swoop down and lower him onto the cool and welcoming waters. He too welcomes the waves- after journeying over hill and dale, this is a utopian state he finds himself in; everything outside it seems unreal.  
He doesn't realise that he is adrift on a sea of deception; inevitably he will be cast upon the jagged rocks of reality till another wave takes him deeper.  He doesn't look up and find his golden birds changed into black-winged demons.

I refuse to be drawn into such a fate! Do what you will, Demos Oneiroi, triplets from the land of dreams; Emir Al-Bakr shall never be tricked by you into a state of passive subservience and vegetative existence! Pass you the Ivory Gate, but expect to be stopped at the gates of my mind!
Indignant fury consumes me as I sweep an arm across the table, knocking it over. The goblet spins through the air, hurtling towards a wall…
 
h3. II.  Hesitant reassurance

The tongues of fire leap about, crackling and hissing as they decimate twigs unlucky enough to fall in their way. There is a draught and the hearth burns yellow, heaving a mighty sigh. I find myself sighing too, and see in that the opening I seek.

"What, dear sir, do you think this fireplace has to teach us in the present context?"
 "I object sir! You dilly-dally with trivialities and distract attention from the discussion. I demand to know why you think dreams are an indication of a person's mental state. The rational community believes that dreams are just a product of unordered cranial impulses, and by nature they have no predictability or bearing to anything!"

One more impatient critic. Each disbeliever shakes my confidence in my own theories. But it is imperative that I let no weakness show. I clear my throat and ready my finest baritone, wear my monocle and fix this indignant man with an unwavering stare.

"Very well sir. Consider your own respectable self. Have you ever felt a strange familiarity in an unknown place? Yes. An inexplicable, certain knowledge of the 'right choice', even if you can't explain it? You simply call it intuition. "

 I pause for effect, and also to judge the impact I've had on him. He tries to stay impassive, but small lapses show that he agrees. Time to push home.
 
I continue, "That is simply because the logical or rational domain, as you see it, is only one part of the human mind. We have an enormous repository of stored experience and knowledge, not all of which we can consciously access. Some of it manifests itself through déjà vu, some through 'premonitions'. And some, sir, through dreams."

"And to what experience can you attribute that assumption?", he questions, hesitation evident in his changed tone.
"I have spent a large part of my adult life studying and interpreting dreams. Your dreams are a reflection of your deepest desires, even you don't consciously accept them. If you're truly troubled by something, you're likely to either see a dream when you overcome your trouble, or one that shows you a solution, built from fragments of your subconscious."

On the edge of his seat now, his curiosity is aroused. 

In his last spurt, he blurts out, "Well doctor, I have had cause to worry off late; from bank mortgage to my ill wife; yet all my dreams are eerie and unrelated!"

Some scoff at it as witchcraft, others consider me a charlatan. But none of them object once I've analysed their dreams for them. This puffing, pompous man is no different.

He tells me all he can remember; of castles in the desert and proud aristocrats. Of a fleeing man in a kaleidoscopic, transitory world. Each life has nothing in common with the previous but the need to run, keep running. He struggles to remember the peculiar point of that dream…

At that moment we are disturbed by a knock on the door. I get up, but there is a maniacal blaze in his eyes as he pulls me back, beseeching me not to 'let it in'. The knocking gets louder and seems to permeate every wall. I begin to see it vibrate. The walls vibrate.

There is no door anymore, only walls.

And they look as though they may crumble any moment…

h3. III.  Illusory relief
 
Nothing has been as widely misinterpreted as insomnia. Me, I don't think it's a problem really.
It lets me stay awake through my dreams and live in a dream-like state when I'm awake.

I am the motif; the background for dreams to build themselves around. I try not to ascertain whether I'm awake or asleep; because in both states I do nothing but flee. From people, responsibility and troubles. I don't know why nobody else realizes that if you run fast enough, nothing can catch up with you. Not even your dreams.    	                                  	   	

Your world becomes a blur, a spinning wheel as you slip in and out of colours, of surroundings, of lives.
On such journeys people have stopped me, some claiming they can help me. I told the curious old man with the monocle- I told him I need no help. He ran after me but I ran faster still, trapping him in his own mind.

I have travelled distant lands, each journey satisfying me only when it transforms into another. I have scared people too; like when I ran across the Emir's desert. He screamed of golden birds and drowning in the sea. Ha, the sea, in that parched desert, with me dying of thirst, asking for but one drop from his goblet.

But now I can run no more, for I am stopped by a great gate. Demons chase me, but I just wait; wait for my surroundings to change and run once more.

The demons come closer. I can barely hear myself think amidst the deafening roar that they make. I am unused to this. I can't bear it much more. I try to scream, hoping it'll wake me from this dream, if a dream it is. But my voice is drowned out.

They come closer. I try to break a window and flee…
 
 
h3. IV. Unadorned truth
 
It is a palace and a cave. Poppies line the entrance but never see the sun. There is a river that quenches no thirst; for it flows out carrying away wakefulness. 
There are three gates, and they open only for three people. One gleams in the darkness, the soft sheen of ivory. Another is translucent, bearing proudly the truth of horn. The third is wrought with forbidding iron pillars, its intent grim and clear. 

There is an absolute stillness about the cave. Its master must never be disturbed, for this is the land of dreams.

His sons, the Oneiroi appear. Today is a rare delight, for they will fly through each gate today. They hold hands and chant,

bq. Not two, but  three great Gates the silent House of Sleep adorn;
 Of polish'd Iv'ry this, of cold iron another, that of transparent Horn:
 Visions true and prophecies new thro' transparent Horn arise;
 Thro' polish'd Iv'ry pass false hope, broken dreams and deluding Lies.
 Past Iron go only one of dream or reality, for it is the gate of Denial;
 The Oneiroi know not who finds pleasure and who faces severe trial.
 
Behind one gate, the clang of metal flung against stone resounds. Behind another, walls begin to crumble upon themselves. Behind the last, glass shatters.
 
Demos Oneiroi, the winged demons, know not which sound came from which gate, for mortal logic is not all they are deaf to.



